---
title: National First Prize, China Undergraduate Physics Tournament
date: 2022-10-10 08:00:00 +8000
categories: [XJTU, Project]
tags: [Bzhan]
---

[Original News](https://phy.xjtu.edu.cn/info/1158/8085.htm)

### Translated Version：Xi'an Jiaotong University Team Wins Special Prize at 13th China Undergraduate Physics Tournament

Source: Release Date: 2022-10-08 Views: 715

From October 3rd to 6th, the 13th China Undergraduate Physics Tournament (CUPT) was held online, organized by Xinjiang University. 65 teams from 64 universities across the country engaged in intense online exchanges and competition. After 3 days of 5 rounds of competition and the final stage, Xi'an Jiaotong University team ranked third nationally and won the Special Prize, achieving excellent results once again. The team also won the Best Style Award, and team member Liu Yangting won two individual awards: Best Opposition and Best Reviewer.

Despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, students and instructors actively prepared for the competition. To thoroughly prepare for the contest topics both theoretically and experimentally, students sacrificed weekends and holidays. With the help of teachers, they spent nearly a year in relentless effort, extensively studying literature, improving experiments, and conducting offline or online discussions and guidance. The final team competing in the national competition consisted of six students: Liu Yangting, Chen Yingrui, Han Bangzheng, Yang Zixuan, Qin Yisha, and Wang Ziye. During the competition, team members won recognition and praise from the judges with their rigorous scientific attitude, solid theoretical foundation, ingenious experimental design, quick debating skills, and seamless teamwork, fully demonstrating the solid professional foundation and outstanding academic style of Xi'an Jiaotong University students.

The excellent results in this competition are not only due to the hard work of the participating students but also thanks to the dedication of many teachers and the support of relevant departments of the university. Thanks to the CUPT instructor team (Gao Hong, Zhang Pei, Li Pengbo, Fang Aiping, Zhao Shumin, Liu Ping, Wang Yanshen, Wang Hongli, Wang Xuedong, Zhang Erhu, Li Rong, Zhai Lipeng, Zhang Junwu); thanks to the professional laboratories of the School of Physics and the Physics Experiment Teaching Center for providing experimental venues, consumables, and equipment; thanks to the Chemistry Experiment Teaching Center of the School of Chemistry for providing some experimental consumables and equipment; thanks to Professor Cao Liangzhi from the School of Energy and Power Engineering for his strong support.

The China Undergraduate Physics Tournament is a national competition created by China based on the model of the International Young Physicists' Tournament (IYPT). Participating students need to research 17 open physics problems and engage in academic exchanges. The competition takes the form of team confrontation, with participating students debating on the basic knowledge, theoretical analysis, experimental research, and result discussion of these practical physics problems. This event has received strong support from the Ministry of Education and is an important innovation competition activity for college students implementing the "National Outline for Medium and Long-term Education Reform and Development (2010-2020)". It has been included in the work plan of the Physics Teaching Guidance Committee of the Chinese Physical Society.